[Music]
good morning and welcome to breakfast
with dan walker and sally nugent
the headlines for you at six o'clock
this morning police fans are set on fire
and officers suffer broken bones as a
protest turns violent in bristol
a bit clear up is underway as you can
see in bristol this morning after a
night of violent protest
a night where the police were the target
[Music]
around ten thousand soldiers are
expected to be cut from the army as part
of the major restructuring
of the armed forces
this summer promises to be the year of
staycations
i'm in devon at exmouth beach to see
how the rnli are preparing
time to clear our names good morning
dozens of post office workers who lost
their jobs their homes some even went to
prison
head to the court of appeal to finally
have their convictions overturned
good morning wembley beckons for
leicester city
as they beat manchester united to reach
the fa cup semi-finals for the first
time in
39 years good morning it's a really
quiet day today weather-wise the best of
the sunshine
will be in the south in the east for the
rest of us it'll be fairly cloudy
but as we go through this week the
weather is turning more unsettled
i'll of all the details coming up
[Music]
good morning it's monday it's the 22nd
of march top story for you this morning
is that two police officers suffered
broken bones and police fans were set on
fire when a protest in bristol turned
violent last night
thousands of people had gathered to
demonstrate against the government's
police and crime bill which would give
police more powers to restrict
demonstrations
our reporter andrew plant was there
[Music]
in a protest against new police powers
it was soon police themselves who became
the target
vans and a police car set on fire
fireworks thrown into the crowd
as around a thousand protesters gathered
in bristol city centre
in what has been police say the worst
violence the city has seen
in years there's a royal police blocking
off what is the
central police station here in bristol
but you can see
at the end of the road they've also
blocked off now the end of this
city center street but also the side
roads too and they're doing it
from behind but there's still about a
thousand people in here and now they're
being left with nowhere to go
protesters here holding banners
concerned they say that the uk
is becoming a police state the kill the
bill march started in the early
afternoon
but as night fell the clashes began
projectiles thrown at officers in riot
gear
we saw several people with head injuries
being helped from the crowd
i think it's horrible and i agree with
the cause of the protesters
but i think this is gonna do anybody any
good
several officers have been injured the
chair of the avon and somerset police
federation
said people's right to protest had been
hijacked by protesters
hell-bent on violence andrew plants bbc
news
in bristol well let's go and speak to
breakfast john mcguire who's in bristol
for us this morning at the scene
john good morning to you describe see
and probably here as well a major
clear-up operation is taking place this
morning city council
in bristol have got an army basically of
people to clear up the mess when we
arrived
just under an hour ago the streets or
certainly the pavements were strewn with
broken beer bottles
trashed cans some of the leftovers from
yesterday's protest some of the banners
and graffiti on a lot of the buildings
around here as well
crews have been using pressure washers
you can see there
to clear up some of the graffiti there's
still some actually
just down on the road there and one
thing that struck me about this scene
this morning
again now cleared up as was a
huge number of stones small stones that
clearly
the most violent of the protesters will
have brought here and used to target the
police station you can see
just look above there where that
boarding is the boarding obviously has
been put in place
where the windows have been smashed but
just look above you can see where that
glass there
i assume it's toughened glass is
peppered and that obviously is where
people were throwing stones
at the police station last night the
crowd were
eventually dispersed something like
midnight i'm told
around that period of time by police
horses and by police dogs as well
in terms of injuries last night two
police officers were taken to hospital
one with a broken arm one with broken
ribs we will hear from
the chief constable of avon and somerset
police today
who will give us their take on what
happened here last night
but clearly very disturbing scenes and
extremely
violent scene one this city hasn't seen
for many many years i can tell you john
mcguire thank you very much for that
we'll be back with john throughout the
morning as john said hopefully we'll be
speaking to avon and somerset police at
some point
uh during the program now talks between
the prime minister and eu leaders are
expected this week as tensions rise
over vaccine supply it comes after the
eu threatened to ban the export of
astrazeneca vaccines unless the company
increases its deliveries to the block
the government says the eu must allow
the firm to meet its contractual
obligations to the uk
a cut in the size of the army is
expected to be announced later as part
of the government's defense review
other changes include phasing out of old
tanks aircraft and ships
to fund new equipment and technologies
our defence correspondent jonathan beale
reports
the government says the armed forces of
the future will be better equipped with
troops supported by robots and drones
able to operate in small teams anywhere
in the world
it says they'll be backed up by a new
kind of army
skilled in information electronic and
cyber warfare
but it'll also be leaner the size of the
regular army is expected to be cut by as
much as ten thousand to seventy thousand
troops that may concern close allies
like the us
who say size matters quantity
has equality all its own as stalin
taught us
and we are concerned about the shrinking
size of britain's military
but i would rather have a fully capable
fully resourced smaller british force
then i would have a larger less capable
one
extra investment is going into the royal
navy with new frigates already being
ordered
but it's still expected to retire some
older ships early
briefly seeing a reduction in its
surface fleet from 19
to 17 warships and there's likely to be
fewer of the u.s
designed f-35 jets than originally
planned
to fund investment in the development of
a new british-built fighter
the government insists this defense
review will make the armed forces more
agile and better equipped
to fight the wars of the future but they
will be smaller
jonathan beale bbc news
around 18 000 australians have been
forced to leave their homes as heavy
rain continues to cause severe flooding
across new south wales
officials say the one in 50-year event
may continue
all week our correspondent sharma khalil
joins us now from sydney uh shiner
thanks for being on the program as ever
um a sad arnie that many of the
communities badly affected
suffer from bush fires in previous
summers as well
that's right in in one year many of
those communities will have had years of
drought
will have been hit by the bushfires
covert 19 and now this very heavy
flooding i'm
in the town of windsor north west of
sydney
one of the most heavily hit areas by the
flooding if i can just show you
dan what it looks like this believe it
or not is the windsor bridge
and you'll be forgiven to not be able to
make it out as a bridge
but this is how high and how swollen the
hawkesbury river
is 13 meters high are the waters that
it's all but submerged and the buildings
just beyond there
are high up the water is high up to the
windows now this area is no stranger to
flooding
locals have been telling us that yes
they've seen laws
nothing like this for decades
and as you say of course this is
happening um after the bushfires and in
the middle of
the pandemic the new south wales premier
gladys bridgeiglian
has said this earlier she said i don't
know any time in the state history
where we have had these extreme weather
conditions in quick succession
in the middle of the pandemic and that's
really what's worrying health officials
eighteen
thousand people have already evacuated
we've been speaking to families
that have been packing up ready to
evacuate that
gathering of people in evacuation
centers is bound to make health
officials
um worried and of course we're in the
middle of the vaccine roll out but with
these with these roads and bridges
submerged it is
bound to slow down the bureau of
meteorology is saying that the rain is
not letting up
for the next few days so for many
families
things will get worse before they get
better they don't know when they're
going to go back to their homes
and what state they'll find their homes
in okay sharma you paint a really
interesting picture there's more thank
you very much that's the latest from
sydney on breakfast for you
now in the last few minutes the world's
first commercial mission aimed at
cleaning up
so-called space junk has been launched
into the atmosphere
lcd took off from kazakhstan but is
being operated from a control center
thousand miles away in oxford our
science correspondent jonathan amos has
more
there are now millions of pieces of
discarded metal and other materials in
orbit
everything from old rocket segments to
accidentally dropped astronaut tools
even flecks of paint the fear is that
unless we start taking some of the
bigger litter items out of the sky
they could hit and destroy the active
satellites that provide our
communications
and weather forecasts the international
astroscale company
with a division in the uk will
demonstrate how this can be done
it'll use one satellite to magnetically
grab another a dummy in this instance
and pull it down to earth the maneuvers
will be complex
and the demonstration will have to take
care that it doesn't itself produce
unnecessary debris the key bit is
to capture a tumbling object so if as
satellites
fails it can quite easily start tumbling
you know about maybe all three axes
and that makes it considerably harder to
capture it
so that that is our key technology
but also we're going to show a lot of
autonomous control astroscale is hoping
a vibrant market will emerge this decade
in which spacecraft owners contract
other operators to either service and
repair hardware in orbit
or tow it out of harm's way this should
keep orbits free and safe
for everyone to continue using jonathan
amos
bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news